So Jesus is one of a number of HCM frameworks out there in the previous version of The Complete web
developer course.
I actually used Jay queery mobile and you're very welcome to check that out as well.
The main reason I've switched to jazz is because Jake very mobile hasn't been updated substantially
and the apps that you build with it simply don't work as well as I'd like and they don't look that great
either.
So Abdo Yes it's very simple.
It's good looking and it's easy to get started with as well.
So on that note let's click download and that will download app japes fashion to to desktop and then
we'll open that up and I'm actually going to copy that and then we'll create a new folder within
the complete web developer course new folder.
And of course call this nine mobile apps
and then will place us in there and you can see we've got the CSSA the javascript a file called zip
code or japes which I'll tell you about in a minute and then indexed age TNL.
So let's open up index today's G-mail in Chrome and see what it looks like.
It's not a great deal to look at.
We've got our home page bar at the top and then we can click on page 2 which takes us to page two and
very nicely that automatically gives us a back button at the top there to take us back to our home page.
That's one of the many features of algea which make it a huge timesaver compared to coding your own
mobile app.
So to investigate how app genius works we're going to start by looking through the code of the home
page and then we're going to try and recreate this demo app on the app gyrus home page to get a bit
more detail as to how it all fits together.
It's worth saying that as usual we're not trying to become Apogees experts here.
We're learning how to get to grips with a new framework quickly to allow us to get on with our development
projects as quickly as possible.
So let's go back over to the find and open indexed alleged e-mail in brackets so here's the code.
It's very familiar.
We've got our usual h t m l head with a title viewport style sheet and got an empty set of styles there.
So nothing new then.
And then we've got our app page with a data page attribute of hope.
If we look further down here we've got the data page attribute of page 2.
So what we've actually got going on here is that each page of the app is its own div so we don't have
multiple HVM l files.
Hey we've just got a single HDMI file with each page of the app having its own app page Dave.
And then within that we've got the app top bar the app title and then app content app section.
And the only thing that we had here was a button saying Go to page 2 and page two is very similar although
we do have this app button left class with a data back data auto title pair of attributes.
As you might imagine essentially creates the back button for us.
But then the content is pretty minimal.
So that's all fairly clear.
So for now we come to this zipcode O.J.'s as have a quick look at what zipped highway is.
It's essentially a small version of Jake Querrey.
So we'll use all the same commands as we do in Jay query but it's a much smaller file size and everything
in theory is a lot faster than with J queries so it's ideal for working with mobile devices.
If you do find that there are some Jey query functions that you need that are not covered with Lepto
then that's fine.
You can just remove Zipzer here and replace it with a query.
But when you're working on mobile it will almost certainly have all the functions that you need.
So it's probably worth going with something like Aptor rather than the full Jey query.
Then we've got our app J.S. javascript code and finally down here we've got a bit of custom javascript
and it looks to me like this function will be called when the home page is loaded.
So let's test out that theory just by putting an alert in there.
Yep we get that pop up when the home page is loaded.
So that's what's going on then.
And presumably this does the same thing but the page to let's just check that we get fantastic.
And then we've got app restore that's just comment out App Store and see what happens.
All right.
So it seems to me that app restore is loading the whole page and applying all of the app J.S. styles
and Javascript functions to it.
So without that we wouldn't have anything and this try and catch set up is javascript code for essentially
saying try to do this and if you have any problems then just load the home page and that's actually
pretty standard terminology and works exactly the same in say swift and Java as well.
So I think the basic setup looks pretty clear.
So let's go back and check out the demo and see if we can recreate it.
And in the process learn a bit about how we could make our own objects app.
Now this demo is actually in an I-frame here.
So we can use control click and then view Framus source to view the DML source of that I-frame.
So let's try and recreate what's going on here a bit by bit.
So we've got some styles at the top.
We might use some of those at some point but I'm more interested in the look of the app.
At this point so you can see we've got our title as before and here we've got a paragraph of app section.
So let's try putting that into our app.
We've actually got a div with a class of apps section that lets pop this in before that div and see
how it looks.
Ok so we can actually make this a bit in our looks a bit more like a phone screen.
So that just gives us a nice separated section with nice rounded corners and everything else.
So let's try and recreate these color boxes here.
So we've got another class of apps section and it looks like it's got the colors built in.
Let's have a look.
Aha.
So we're definitely going to need some custom styles to apply.
Is that Sluggy.
What's going on at the top here.
So we've got some styles for the scroll page.
We'll look at that a bit later on some backgrounds for the Web Kit keyframes.
They are the animations for when new pages are fading in or out.
So we've got the background colors for those.
And then we've got aspecific styles for our color picker.
So let's use in our style section as well.
And let's take a look.
Wonderful.
So now we've got these nice clean color sections but of course they don't change the top or background
yet so there must be some javascript which does that.
Let's have a look down.
And here we go.
Now that's quite a lot going on here including a bit of local storage which we'll be talking about in
the next video there instead of just copying and pasting this code.
We're going to attempt to recreate what the demo is doing without own code.
So essentially what we want is for when one of these is clicked on it updates the top bar there to have
that background color shouldn't be too tricky right.
Well first of all let's think where we would want to run that code.
We want to run it both when the home page is launched and when page 2 is launched as well.
So I'm going to set up a function
I'll use their function name set up page color.
I do like that they're spelling color with you.
Always nice and we'll have a page variable that's going to be passed to that function as well.
And that will allow us to run that function from both of those pages
without having to include the Katowice
OK.
Just to make sure everything's connected up right.
Let's do a quick alert.
I would get.
And on page 2 it does the same thing wonderful.
So we're going to need our app to do two things.
We're going to want to get the color of the background here.
And then we want to set the color of the background to the same if we look through the code here it
looks to me like this code would be very useful to us.
So this looks through the page it finds a UL with a class of color picker and then it finds all the
allies the list items within that unordered list it makes them clickable.
And then when they're clicked it runs a function that does something with old color that I'm not sure
where that interested in.
But more relevantly it's gets the color of the Clix item from the data attribute which I remember as
a data color blue data color dark blue etc..
So let's copy that part and I'm happy to copy that bit of code because it's pretty familiar to us and
we know how everything is working.
What I don't want to do is just copy the massive chunk of code and not really understand it.
This just cries out function Kate.
Then
so let's create the variable color.
And for now we'll just let it
and that we'll just check to see if we've got
the right color.
There we go.
So green yellow orange.
Brilliant So we've achieved the first part.
Now let's update the title bar with that color.
Again let's have a look at the source code.
It looks to me like removing classes and adding classes is going to be pretty important to him.
So let's add the class first.
And it looks like the class that we can add is simply color say.
Let's take a look.
Dave will want to update.
It looks like app top bar is what we want to be updating.
Let's get rid of our alerts and find
app.
Top bunk.
OK.
It's a class rather than an ID.
And we want to add the class color to it.
So let's just see if that works in itself it may dip as we get.
In fact it almost does but not quite.
And the reason it doesn't work completely is because we're just adding lots and lots of classes on top
of each other.
So that's what that's what this whole color is doing.
It's removing the previous color that was added so that we can add the new color onto it.
So let's set up our variable old color which initially will have an empty then when we've updated the
top to a particular color we can remove the old color class and to do that we'll need to know what that
was.
So we'll set old color to color
and so first time round.
So I would click on the yellow then we'll make the top yellow and we'll set the old color to yellow
and then we'll need to remove the old color class before we add the new one each time
we go.
And that should now remove the old class as well as adding the new one.
So we should now be able to Odair.
Nope that's gone horribly wrong.
I suspect that's because initially it's trying to remove an empty class which then removes what class
it did have which loses all the styling up there.
So instead of just having an empty variable here let's set it to an empty string and then we can just
use an IF statement to check if old color is not an empty string.
Then remove that class and that should get round that problem.
We should now be able to update that's every game without any problems.
Wonderful.
Let's just add a couple of these items lower down then.
OK for buttons and
lists.
And we'll actually be looking at inputs in a couple of videos time.
So it looks to me like lists is a separate page with a big long chunk of code containing all these lists.
All right so you use Command F and search for lists we get.
And that gives us this carried here so I'm going to copy that H M L because I think I understand it
while I'm here.
I think I'll copy buttons as well.
And that will give us two new pages so we'll leave Page 2 in there for the moment.
But we've now got lists which indeed looks pretty straightforward.
It's what we're used to seeing.
And then buttons as well.
Looks like it should be pretty standard.
So let's create our code to jump to the list's page.
So I'm going to copy the code to jump to page 2 and then notice the lists page had a data page of lists.
So we can just use lists there and we want to set up the page color there as well.
And the only other thing we need to add is they link to lists on the home page so we should be able
to find that if we search up with lists.
And here we go.
So here's our Dave with a class of apps section and it's got links to lists buttons inputs and scrolling.
So let's put in that's
just below the top our colors app section.
Take a look at that.
So that's looking good.
Now if we click on lists you can see it jumps very nicely to our lists page and notice that we didn't
put a link in there we didn't use an A with an H.
We just used a class of button and a data target of lists and then the javascript within a framework
interpreted that as a load of the list's page here.
And that then does all the hard work of putting the back button and everything else.
Great.
So adding the buttons code should be straightforward.
In fact it might already work as it is.
Yes it does.
Wonderful.
So we can click those buttons and they behave very similarly to the native buttons on iOS and Android.
The one final thing I'm interested in here is this dialogue because dialogs are pretty useful to us
in mobile applications.
And that looks very I.R.S. like.
So let's see how we recreate that.
So again we search for dialogue.
So it's got a class of app button and app menu.
So let's search for app button.
So there's a lot of them that I wonder if there are any in the javascript now.
So let's have a look for app menu instead.
Aha.
So this looks interesting.
So we're searching through the page again finding the app menu class.
And then when it's clicked we use the app dialog function which opens up that dialog and displays it
very very similar to iOS and it looks like we have various buttons then which we can then do something
in response to this function at the bottom.
So I think I understand this well enough to copy that chunk of code.
And this is going to be in the buttons page.
So actually before I copy it over I'm going to add a controller for the buttons page and then let's
copy this over.
So we want to copy from there to there I think
and then paste that in and then let's take a look.
Now when we tap dialog we get this lovely dialog.
And we can cancel and take it back to where we were
wonderful.
So what we call here is pretty basic but it's fairly attractive.
It would definitely serve as the basis of a iOS or Android app.
Pretty well once you've got this far with a framework and you've been able to recreate one of the demos
it's probably worth having a look at the documentation and just having a fairly brief examination to
see if there's anything that you missed or any other functions that you might find useful as you're
building your apps.
Things like event lists are very useful as well.
And just clarifying how everything fits together.
Is a very good use of the documentation.
So if you're keen on making a mobile app I definitely recommend reading through the docs of apps.
Yes.
We're going to move on though to something pretty important when you're building mobile apps and that
is being able to store data permanently within the app.
That's not something we've looked at before but we're going to see how to do it now with the HCM L5
tool.
Local storage.